README.md, before:

# Yes, that's the tracked branch



## Credits

* Github Page built on [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/) 
* Theme by [Hydeout](https://github.com/fongandrew/hydeout) (theme's [README](README-hydeout.md)) 
* Archive page inspired from [Chirpy](https://github.com/cotes2020/jekyll-theme-chirpy) theme
* Alerts (Tip/Warning/Info/...) inspired from [Documentation](https://github.com/tomjoht/documentation-theme-jekyll/) theme 



## Reminders

* Run locally with

  ```bash
  $ bundle exec jekyll serve --livereload
  ```

* Check build status on [Actions](https://github.com/LAripping/laripping.github.io/actions/workflows/pages/pages-build-deployment)



## TODOs

- [x] Re-refactor "related" - 2 common Tags and factor in categories 
- [x] Add everything
- [x] Fix Broken theme on narrow screens
- [ ] Add Projects page, sidebar-linked
- [ ] Images on posts? Only on List layout. For social post previews (SEO?)
- [x] Excerpt provided in MD directive. The rest only visible on post.html -> to unlock TOCs 
  - [x] add Advisory tables (Product+Version - Severity - CVE - type)    
  - [x] Re-add Intro/Introduction sections
- [ ] (sticky) TOC on the right side? ( [idea](https://github.com/mmistakes/minimal-mistakes/blob/master/_layouts/single.html) )

Commit message:

Post Images on Index View
Along with the images themselves. Pointer in YAML front matter, tag classed for easy modification, defaults to no tag if no YAML front matter directive is specified

README.md, after:

# Yes, that's the tracked branch



## Credits

* Github Page built on [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/) 
* Theme by [Hydeout](https://github.com/fongandrew/hydeout) (theme's [README](README-hydeout.md)) 
* Archive page inspired from [Chirpy](https://github.com/cotes2020/jekyll-theme-chirpy) theme
* Alerts (Tip/Warning/Info/...) inspired from [Documentation](https://github.com/tomjoht/documentation-theme-jekyll/) theme 



## Reminders

* Run locally with

  ```bash
  $ bundle exec jekyll serve --livereload
  ```

* Check build status on [Actions](https://github.com/LAripping/laripping.github.io/actions/workflows/pages/pages-build-deployment)



## TODOs

- [x] Re-refactor "related" - 2 common Tags and factor in categories 
- [x] Add everything
- [x] Fix Broken theme on narrow screens
- [ ] Add Projects page, sidebar-linked
- [x] Images on posts? Only on Index layout.
  - [ ] Make them appear in social post preview (SEO)
- [x] Excerpt provided in MD directive. The rest only visible on post.html -> to unlock TOCs 
  - [x] add Advisory tables (Product+Version - Severity - CVE - type)    
  - [x] Re-add Intro/Introduction sections
- [ ] (sticky) TOC on the right side? ( [idea](https://github.com/mmistakes/minimal-mistakes/blob/master/_layouts/single.html) )
